README.md, before:

# Hardware VGA text mode project

![photo of the prototype hardware](Episode01/Materials/figures/episode01/prototype.jpg)

This repository documents my attempt to implement a VGA text mode using logic chips and GAL devices for my [8-bit computer project](https://github.com/daveho/DIY8bit).

As of the current time (end of June 2024) the hardware can produce a valid 640x480 VGA video signal and display a solid color, and 8KB of video memory has been implemented.

The project is being documented as a series of youtube videos:

Video | Topic(s) | Supporting materials
----- | -------- |--------------------
[Episode 01](https://youtu.be/FBDaKUfpmKo) | Sync gen and pixel output | [Episode01](Episode01)
[Episode 02](https://youtu.be/wY-jgFELOBk) | VRAM | [Episode02](Episode02)

This project was inspired by the [Wire Wrap Odyssey](https://wirewrapodyssey.com) project.

I'm using [Logisim Evolution](https://github.com/logisim-evolution/logisim-evolution) to simulate parts of the design before building the hardware.

I'm using [GALasm](https://github.com/daveho/GALasm) to compile the GAL logic equations into fuse maps. Note that even though this is hosted in my Github account, I didn't write it. (I fixed a bug and then posted the code on my Github since there didn't seem to be any existing version control repo for it.)

The [HardwareDesign](HardwareDesign) directory contains the most up-to-date hardware design. The schematics were created using (of course!) [KiCad](https://www.kicad.org/). There is a [PDF of the schematic](HardwareDesign/HW_VGA.pdf) which may or may not be up to date.

This is a work in progress! I don't make any guarantees about its usefulness or correctness. Feedback can be sent to <mailto:david.hovemeyer@gmail.com>.

Commit message:

getting ready to release episode 03

README.md, after:

# Hardware VGA text mode project

![photo of the prototype hardware](Episode01/Materials/figures/episode01/prototype.jpg)

This repository documents my attempt to implement a VGA text mode using logic chips and GAL devices for my [8-bit computer project](https://github.com/daveho/DIY8bit).

As of the current time (mid-July 2024) the hardware can produce a valid 640x480 VGA video signal and display a solid color, 8KB of video memory has been implemented, and character and attribute data is fetched from VRAM. All that remains is rendering the character and attribute data as pixels.

The project is being documented as a series of youtube videos:

Video | Topic(s) | Supporting materials
----- | -------- |--------------------
[Episode 01](https://youtu.be/FBDaKUfpmKo) | Sync gen and pixel output | [Episode01](Episode01)
[Episode 02](https://youtu.be/wY-jgFELOBk) | VRAM | [Episode02](Episode02)
Episode 03 | Readout | [Episode03](Episode03)

This project was inspired by the [Wire Wrap Odyssey](https://wirewrapodyssey.com) project.

I'm using [Logisim Evolution](https://github.com/logisim-evolution/logisim-evolution) to simulate parts of the design before building the hardware.

I'm using [GALasm](https://github.com/daveho/GALasm) to compile the GAL logic equations into fuse maps. Note that even though this is hosted in my Github account, I didn't write it. (I fixed a bug and then posted the code on my Github since there didn't seem to be any existing version control repo for it.)

The [HardwareDesign](HardwareDesign) directory contains the most up-to-date hardware design. The schematics were created using (of course!) [KiCad](https://www.kicad.org/). There is a [PDF of the schematic](HardwareDesign/HW_VGA.pdf) which may or may not be up to date.

This is a work in progress! I don't make any guarantees about its usefulness or correctness. Feedback can be sent to <mailto:david.hovemeyer@gmail.com>.
